.TH tlswrapper\-smtp 1
.SH NAME
tlswrapper\-smtp \- TLS encryption wrapper \- smtp helper
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tlswrapper\-smtp [ options ] \fIprog\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fBtlswrapper\-smtp\fR adds STARTTLS support to old inetd-style SMTP servers which doesn't support STARTTLS naturally.
Is excecuted as follows:
.PP
Internet <\-\-> systemd.socket/inetd/tcpserver/... <\-\-> \fBtlswrapper\fR <\-\-> \fBtlswrapper\-smtp\fR  <\-\-> smtpprogram
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-q
Quiet mode. No error messages.
.TP
.B \-v
Enable verbose mode. Multiple \-v options increase the verbosity. The maximum is 3.
.TP
.B \-t \fIseconds\fR
Set the network timeout to seconds \fIseconds\fR. (default 600).
.TP
.B \-T \fIseconds\fR
Set the connect timeout to seconds \fIseconds\fR. (default 10).
.TP
.B \-u \fIuser\fR
Run program \fIprog\fR under a specified \fIuser\fR's uid and gid
.TP
.B \-g \fIhost:port\fR
Enable greylist support (postgrey protocol) and use server running on \fIhost:port\fR .
.TP
.B \-J \fIjaildir\fR
Chroot into a specified \fIjaildir\fR (default: /var/lib/tlswraper/empty).
.TP
.B \-j \fIjailuser\fR
Run under a specified \fIjailuser\fR's uid and gid. If unset run under random uid and gid.
.TP
.I prog
program
.SH SECURITY
.B JAIL \- Privilege separation, filesystem isolation, limits
.PP
The \fBtlswrapper\-smtp\fR similarly to \fBtlswrapper\fR processes runs under dedicated non\-zero uid to prohibit kill, ptrace, etc.
Is chrooted into an empty, unwritable directory to prohibit filesystem access.
Sets ulimits to prohibit new files, sockets, etc. Sets ulimits to prohibit forks.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
run qmail-smtpd on port 25 with STARTTLS:
.RS 4
.nf
exec softlimit -m 64000000 -f 100000000 \\
tcpserver \-HRDl0 0 25 \\
tlswrapper \-v \-n \-f /etc/ssl/cert.pem \\
tlswrapper-smtp \-v \-u qmaild \\
qmail-smtpd
.fi
.RE
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tlswrapper (1)
