.TH tlswrapper-tcp 1
.SH NAME
tlswrapper-tcp \- TLS encryption wrapper - tcp client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tlswrapper-tcp [ options ] \fIhost\fR \fIport\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fBtlswrapper-tcp\fR is TCP client which connects to \fIhost\fR:\fIport\fR and
transfers data from standard input to the host and from the host to the standard output.
It's designed to work to together with \fBtlswrapper\fR and is the \fBtlswrapper\fR executed.
Allows you to protect non-TLS TCP service using TLS similarly to stunnel(8).
Systemd.socket/inetd/tcpserver/... creates the server connection, tlswraper encrypts/decrypts data stream and
\fBtlswrapper-tcp\fR creates the client connection and sends/receives unencrypted data to/from the \fIhost\fR:\fIport\fR as follows:
.PP
Internet <\-\-> systemd.socket/inetd/tcpserver/... <\-\-> \fBtlswrapper\fR <\-\-> \fBtlswrapper-tcp\fR <-> \fIhost\fR:\fIport\fR
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-q
Quiet mode. No error messages. See LOGGING LEVELS.
.TP
.B \-v
Enable verbose mode. Multiple \-v options increase the verbosity. The maximum is 3. See LOGGING LEVELS.
.TP
.B \-t \fIseconds\fR
Set the network timeout to seconds \fIseconds\fR. (default 3600).
.TP
.B \-T \fIseconds\fR
Set the connect timeout to seconds \fIseconds\fR. (default 10).
.TP
.B \-p \fIversion\fR
Enable incomming proxy-protocol version \fIversion\fR string.
.TP
.B \-P \fIversion\fR
Enable outgoing proxy-protocol version \fIversion\fR string.
.TP
.B \-J \fIjaildir\fR
Chroot network-process into a specified \fIjaildir\fR (default: /var/lib/tlswraper/empty).
.TP
.B \-j \fIjailuser\fR
Run network-process and dnsresolver-process under a specified \fIjailuser\fR's uid and gid. If unset run network-process and dnsresolver-process under random uid and gid.
.TP
.I host
host or IP
.TP
.I port
TCP port
.SH SECURITY
.B Separate process for network connection and separate process for DNS resolving
.PP
To protect against secret-information leaks to the network connection (such Heartbleed) \fBtlswrapper-tcp\fR runs two independent processes.
One process resolves the hostname and second creates a connection to \fIhost\fR:\fIport\fR.
.PP
.B JAIL - Privilege separation, filesystem isolation, limits
.PP
The \fBtlswrapper-tcp\fR similarly to \fBtlswrapper\fR processes runs under dedicated non-zero uid to prohibit kill, ptrace, etc.
Is chrooted into an empty, unwritable directory to prohibit filesystem access.
Sets ulimits to prohibit new files, sockets, etc. Sets ulimits to prohibit forks.
.PP
.SH LOGGING LEVELS
.TS
allbox;
c s s
l l l.
levels
level	option	notes
usage	-q	Quiet mode. No error messages. Prints only usage.
fatal	-Q	Prints only fatal error messages (default).
info	-v	Prints info/warning/error messages.
debug	-vv	Prints debug messages.
tracing	-vvv	Prints tracing informations.
.TE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Run tlswrapper using tcpserver/busybox/inetd on port 443 and connect to non-TLS service ip 127.0.0.1 and port 80
.RS 4
.nf
tcpserver -HRDl0 0 443 tlswrapper [ options ] tlswrapper-tcp 127.0.0.1 80
busybox tcpsvd 0 443 tlswrapper [ options ] tlswrapper-tcp 127.0.0.1 80
inetd.conf line: https stream tcp nowait root /usr/bin/tlswrapper tlswrapper [ options ] /usr/bin/tlswrapper-tcp 127.0.0.1 80
.fi
.RE
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tlswrapper (1)
.SH LOGGING LEVELS
